# Landfill-Gas-to-Energy Engine System

The United States is responsible for nearly 20% of worldwide greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and some fraction of these emissions can be attributed to landfill and waste mismanagement. Much of the gas emitted from landfills can be used in landfill-gas-to-energy projects as fuel to power electricity-generating equipment. West Lake landfill in St. Missouri is aiming to implement an energy generating system to attain benefits from landfill gas produced at their site. West Lake is considered a low-income food desert community; when gas is openly flared without a collection system, the subsurface landfill fires put surrounding communities at risk. A benefit of building a landfill-gas-to-energy project at this site is that it increases the landfill environment safety due to the proper management of the landfill gas.

This report presents a recommendation for an engine that optimizes energy production while accounting for social, private, and external costs considering social justice implications. The financial calculations performed consisted of the Net Present Value (NPV) of all costs and benefits for 13 systems across the 25 year period and performing a sensitivity analysis. Calculation of social costs after considering emission valuation was done and NPV was recalculated considering these social costs, in addition to costs of an uncontrolled landfill and landfill with a flare system. To address uncertainty in this social NPV assessment, a Monte Carlo analysis was executed on recommended systems.

